---
layout: page
title: Short stories
permalink: /scrache-buttic-on-art
---

_The following is a series of extracts from the critically acclaimed forthcoming book by the eminent art critic Mr. Scraché Buttic, who beautifully writes on his most and least favourite exhibitions and works of art with a fevered passion, then milks many pages worth of meaning out of what mere humans like us would find plain and lifeless. He proceeds to contemplate what art is, and ultimately whether or not it even exists._

Before the reader begins his (hopefully fascinating[[1]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn1)) journey into the present landscape of art, he or she must appreciate the book’s value as a piece of criticism as well as a book of wisdom. As such it is only suitable for those contained within the upper echelons of good (or rather, exquisite) taste. Eaters of fast food and listeners of rock music need not apply, thank you very much, although I do admire your brazen attempts at climbing the much-fabled ladder of class. If you are at all unsure as to your stature in class or taste, you must check to see if your lineage has a lord, lady or anyone higher in it. If not, then an understanding of and an ability to use competently the word pneumonoultramicroscopicsilicovolcanoconiosis is sufficient. If, reader, you have passed the test, then by all means, continue.

Art, my wonderful people, is an exceedingly beautiful thing. It can transform a view, it can hang neatly upon one’s wall[[2]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn2), and it can make one want to kill oneself. I personally prefer the latter mixed with the former former (i.e. view transformation), so that my worldview is subtly changed to contain a broader opinion of mortality, and so that I may do the reverse (i.e. bring _my_ worldview to the artwork) – although this occasionally requires the artist’s permission. I have often been so overwhelmingly dazzled by a work of art that I begin to view everything, even the most mundane of objects and tasks, in terms of it. I once observed in a London art gallery, ingeniously placed near the entrance, a painting of the map of the London Underground. After much inner debating, I came to the conclusion that the meaning of the piece was twofold. Firstly, its beautiful use of colour coding and its somewhat ambiguous use of line cause one to reflect upon the same things in reality, and especially how much easier it would be if people were colour coded, for I am not one for names. Secondly, if one is lost, they should but glance at it and they shall know where to go. Sid Narovski, a critic and dear friend of mine who passed away of shock recently, commented acutely in one of his essays that this “is obviously a metaphor for how easy it is to get lost in life… surely any [idiot] can see this.”[[3]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn3) I relayed these thoughts to my wife later, in a somewhat impassioned state, saying “O, my wife! Could you not have been formed of colours and lines? You are far too curvaceous! And when I am lost, can I look at you and find the way home?” This comment, and thus the expression of all my subconscious musings, was easily worth the £459,999 I paid in the divorce proceedings. Whenever now I happen to find myself on the London Underground, lost, I stare at a map and wonder how I could consider myself an art critic, having not noticed these many works of art before. Oftentimes I simply stand and admire them, fancying myself in my childhood years, granted with such a feeling of nonchalance and carefreeness that I laugh in the faces of those commuters who ask me to move so that _they_ can see it.

On the rare occasion that I take a rest from my busy schedule to dine at a fine restaurant (after much screaming and pain, and a passionate yet amateurish display of my karate skills), I find the road of my thoughts inexorably paved towards art. Much to the unreasonable annoyance of my friends at the table, I once observed that the food in modern restaurants (expensive ones, anyway) is currently in a belated phase of modernism. Just as the modernist novels of the early 20thcentury were created as a backlash to the popularity and absurd simplicity of the novels of the late 19th century when it became increasingly irritating that any old bum off the streets could read a book, so modernist food is created as a backlash to fast food, which, again, any old bum can eat with relative proficiency. As such modernist food is small. This is initially surprising, but one is later comforted with the realisation that this can only be a good thing, since anything too small to be enjoyable by a ruffian must, as a rule, be something made only for the upper crust (of society). I confidently believe smaller food to be the way forward. According to Bonatarte’s _The 49 Laws of Food[[4]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn4)_, “food… must be an aesthetic experience, and not simply a matter of filling one’s stomach.” In fact I educatedly predict that in the future the human stomach will have evolved to become smaller and the human tongue bigger, thereby taking on the role of the entire digestive system at once. At this stage, restaurant food will progress to the postmodernist phase when it will be almost entirely decorational, and not particularly edible. My, how the mind wanders grandly to this lofty place in time, where the smiley face consisting of eggs and sausages will be considered as base and backward as Aboriginal art! Soon we will not need chefs; we will need portrait cooks, geniuses who can capture my spirit with a bit of caviar and some wine, then present it to me on a plate for my aesthetical consumption!

Whenever my day comes to its inevitable conclusion, and the physical connection between myself and the infinite world of art is torn asunder, I gleefully reflect that not even devilish Night can break the emotional connection. In my dreams, my unconscious mind takes such fancy flights into the realms beyond earthly comprehension that they would put most artists into a permanent state of shame, be they living or dead, or not yet conceived. Unfortunately I cannot for native France remember any of them, such is my schedule overflowing with activity. But the pen has strayed, my people, for when I sat down to write today I intended to relay my philosophical thoughts on art, not to tell the reader of my dreams!

It has been said, primarily by despisable thinkers of old, that art is a reflection of nature. A reflection of nature, my friends! This must either have been a joke (if so, a rather tasteless one) or a very foolish thing to be slipped from one’s mouth. If art is a reflection of nature, then why could we not have galleries of mirrors and trees? I shall tell the reader why: because this would be a highly impractical waste of the taxpayer’s money. Even I can see this, and I am so uninclined to think in mathematical terms that I am often given too little change at shops. The mirror, as wonderful an invention as I am assured it is, is nothing if not a deceitful liar. How can the mirror claim to be reflecting me, when people at knife-point have told me in all sincerity that I am the “most beautiful thing ever” to grace their fields of vision, and as such “most fit to be an art critic”[[5]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn5)? The mirror has shown my left eye to be larger than my right; why is it then that I am told it is the other way around?

Another deceased friend of mine, the highly respectable Patton Braisley, rather oddly for an Englishman, wrote very perceptively and somewhat reflectively  (and possibly a little dejectedly) that: “perhaps… art does not exist. Perhaps it is just a figment of our respective imaginations, tellingly hinting to the world our deepest opinions and feelings. For instance, when I go to an exhibition which I have a bad feeling about, I come out writing that it was rubbish. Since it didn’t exist, this just expressed my negative feeling at the time… oh, I don’t know.”[[6]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftn6) If this is true, then I cannot decide whether this makes my job easier or more difficult. On the one hand, the difficulty lies in the psychological interpretations of my opinions. On the other, I can write as much rubbish as I see fit and get away with it, as long as I sound authoritative.

_And here the extract ends. You must purchase the book to find out the ending. It is available in only the best bookstores, overpriced at just £34.99_.

* * *

[[1]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref1) If, however, one disagrees with all the planet’s critics on this point, a refund is certainly in question.

[[2]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref2) According to Sevajuel Hudino, it “can even distract attention from a horrible wallpaper,” although most critics disagree.

[[3]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref3) Sid Narovski, _Observations, Dedications, Accusations and High Art_, Chapter 4: That Underground Painting, p1079

[[4]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref4) Apoleon Bonatarte, _The 49 Laws of Food,_ Law 17: The Aesthetics of Food, p168

[[5]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref5) Jim Bobby, _Dying For The Truth_, Chapter 1: I Thought I Was Dying, p3

[[6]](https://www.davidmichael.me/short-stories/scrache-buttic-on-art/#_ftnref6) Patton Braisley, _Art – The Hesitant Musings of a Critic,_ Chapter 18: Conclusion?, p895