---
layout: page
title: Short stories
permalink: /the-blue-pig
---

In Devon, there passes a legend in the mouths of the people. A legend, my friends, of a very special pig. The blue pig. It is a sad story, and not for the faint of heart. I shall herein discourse the tale, or what I know of it.

It is said that in the place of Nethercott, during the first blue moon of the year, assuming of course that, being so rare, there is one, the stars form in such a way so as to reveal the shape of a pig. Only the luckiest of the passers will notice it, for it is so loosely connected that I am assured it takes only the very best of astronomers to recognise. When the stars are thus shaped, the blue pig, who cunningly hides himself in an obvious spot in the middle of a field in the middle of the night, sits down, and, after admiring the view and philosophising about what it could mean, lays an egg. Now this did happen, and strangely enough, the egg hatched almost instantaneously to reveal not another blue pig but in fact a blue mole. Now if you were to think that this was strange enough, the mole then revealed itself to be yet stranger. For it had the awesome power to dig into the Earth more powerfully than even the most legendary of moles. And inevitably, it did so, while the blue pig carefully guarded it, quite ready to attack anyone that passed near. And it dug and it dug, until eventually it ‘stumbled’ across a blue pearl. After it returned to the surface (far more quickly than it got to the pearl, for it now knew the way in advance), it secretly handed the pearl over to the pig. They exchanged a few words of wisdom, quite like Aristotle would to Alexander the Great, and the pig thanked the mole, only to bid it farewell. After the mole had gone out of sight, the pig began slowly to cry, for it knew that the mole was now dead, either because it was not strong enough to survive in the world, or because it decided to take the easy way out. But with the mole now out of the way, the pig slyly placed a pile of mud over the hole the mole had dug. Slowly, he walked off, still sad for the death of his best of friends. But he cheered himself with the merry prospect of the future.

Eventually, our blue pig reached the Tavern, and, as agreed he handed the blue pearl over to the designated man. The man took him round the back, making sure that nobody noticed, and handed him over a special book. This book, he told the pig, will give you infinite wisdom, and make you not as a man, but as a god. So he left the Tavern with the special book, and, after, trudging through the raining seas, he reached the Pig Barbers. He got his colour dyed back to pink for espionage purposes, but since he had no money on him, he had to give two pages of his book away.

He left, and regretted giving the two pages away, for they were two pages of the path to infinite wisdom and all that. Oh well, he tried to console himself, I may still have _almost_ infinite wisdom. He stopped awhile and realised that he was so far away from home that he had to take the bus. So he went to the bus stop, and of course remembered at the last minute that he had no money on him. When the bus arrived, he told the bus driver his story; and being quite the clever little manipulator, he managed to excavate some sympathy from the driver’s heart. Give us an oink then, said the driver. But the little blue piggy decided to save himself the embarrassment and asked if the driver would like instead a page of the book of infinite wisdom. The bus driver was not very interested in wisdom, being much the fool himself, but at least saw some potential for economical self-good. The bus driver said that three pages would be his final offer. Discomforted by the rain outside, the pig decided it was his only choice, so he went ahead with it.

Finally, he reached home, and managed to sneak in to the pigsty unnoticed. While the others were sleeping, he decided to catch some reading, to see how wise and powerful he could make himself. Unexpectedly, he found that the contents page was one he had given away; but he continued reading undeterred, for the blue pig was determined as any pig. After some minutes had ticked by, though, he found that the book was so boring that he quickly fell asleep.

The next morning, he found himself in quite the pigrush, and the sty was as messy as, well, anything. He went off with the other pigs, not thinking for one moment that he might be forgetting something. He ate breakfast merrily, went for a walk merrily, spent the whole day wandering around merrily, until it hit him like a butcher – he had forgotten his book! The one of infinite wisdom and all that! He ran on home as fast as his legs could take him, and when he returned, he found… nothing.

And all the rest of the day he sat there, hiding in his hay, sulking until the night came. Sometimes he heard some people pass, not saying anything interesting. Something about an abnormal little pig, intelligent one… “reading a book or something, infinite wisdom in twenty days like, you know, anyway I sold it, thought I could get some needed bucks in me pocket.”

Wait, thought our blue pig, they sold my book! But he was just learning how to fly!

“Why didn’t you keep the book for yourself?” said a voice.

The other laughed. “Me, read? When pigs fly!”